# SaftyApp

In today’s world, the number of people using smart phones has increased rapidly and hence, a smart phone can be used efficiently for personal security or various other protection purposes. The heinous incident that outraged the entire nation have waken us to go for the safety issues and so a host of new apps have been developed to provide security systems to women via their phones. We present Safety Pin, a cross platform application for the Safety of adults, children and senior citizens. This app can be activated by a single click, whenever need arises. A single click on this app identifies the location of phone through GPS and sends a well worded message comprising this location URL and some tips as to what the recipient can do to the registered contacts. We have all seen a lot of safety apps which cater to a specific category like “Parent & Child”, “Senior Citizen” or for “Adults”, hence we thought of making one app for all these use cases. With a simple one tap interface you can choose which category you fall into. Each category has a specific set of actions that can be performed. We use two forms off storage for data that we collect, one is local storage and the other is Firebase Firestore. Now the question arises of how we distinguished between what was stored locally and what was to be stored in the database, we had two criteria’s: Privacy and Size. We feel privacy is a basic human right which shouldn’t be compromised for anything. Hence anything that personally can identify the user is stored on the device locally. Now another problem of storage is that we have an unlimited limited amount of it and unlike giant cloud servers built by multi-million-dollar companies, our phone necessarily doesn’t have a lot of it. So, we had to think about the size of the data. For any data that was huge in size, like the number of medicines a senior citizen was using. There is no way to gauge how many medicines an individual uses just by looking at them, and we won’t even have that luxury. Hence all medicinal data is stored up on the cloud, but we didn’t forget about our privacy concern while wondering about space. All medicines are stored under collections which are given the name of their device ID. Since device IDs are hugely unique it is impossible for there to be a collision. 

# Motivation
India has never been one for safety of women. Almost every day we get to hear of horror stories of things women have gone through. That is how the project started then we realized, “Wait a second, we have power over here we can make something and give it to our family and friends to run and use in their daily lives, so why limit ourselves to only women. Why not increase our scope of audience. So, we came up with categories. Every person can fall into one category based on their age (Child, adult or senior citizen).” Thus, widening our app to include a lot of people and most of our family and friend. As we went along in the initial development stages for the application, we were informed about different problems different people in each category face and then based on some data analysis used 2-3 common problems faced by people in our own application.

# How to use
Since this project is still in it's development phase we do not have an app that you can download from the App Store or Google Play Store. If you still wish to test out the app we recommend you to carry out the following steps:
> Download [Flutter](https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install).(Once downloaded we recommend you run Flutter Doctor to ensure everything has been downloaded and is working properly)<br/>
> Download [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/).<br/>
> [Clone](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository) the project to your PC.<br/>
> Connect a Android Emulator or an actual phone to [run the app].<br/>(https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/test-drive?tab=androidstudio)

#Working
Here's a video that shows the working of the application https://drive.google.com/file/d/1REjOI53dJoNz4b4q-eEJDUcUTykcME7T/view?usp=sharing
